Section two Unity two D physics components.
In this section we'll cover the rigid body, two RD component, the collider two RD component, and
also two RD effectors and two D joints.
We'll even discuss physics for Unity Sprite sheet.
In this video we'll cover the rigid body two RD component and its most important properties.
We'll also play with this component inside the Unity editor.
First, let's discuss the transform component.
The transform component is the most basic component in unity.
It enables position, rotation and scale for a game object.
This is automatically attached to every game object in your world.
The rigid body component is also a component.
It is the component that enables physical behavior for a game object with a rigid body attached.
The object will immediately respond to gravity.
Let's see the script reference for rigid body two D inside the script reference for rigid body two d.
We can see lots of great information.
This is a resource you want to visit while you're in development with a game to understand the features
that are there and how to use them.
You may even discover some optimizations.
There's the description.
There is properties as well.
Public methods that you can call.
As well as inherited members and public methods from its super classes.
A note about two D versus three D.
Unity has two completely separate systems.
Sometimes during the course I may refer specifically to rigid body two D or more generically to rigid
body.
I use rigid body to refer to both 2D and 3D since the concepts are the same.
Understanding the rigid body is critical to understanding unity physics.
If we select a game object with rigid body attached, we'll see all of the properties of rigid body
inside the inspector.
Let's browse those properties.
There's a lot of properties to see.
We'll focus on a few key ones.
First of all, there's body type.
This controls the physical behavior of a rigid body.
There's three different options.
First is dynamic.
This is the most common when we set to rigid body into dynamic.
This allows it to react to gravity and applied forces.
We should never move this manually through its transform.
We should always apply forces.
Body type two is kinematic.
This does not respond to gravity or forces and we are allowed to move it manually.
Body type three is static things like the floor in our world or the world itself.
If we're building a planet, we don't want it respond to gravity.
We want objects on top of it to fall and then to believably bounce and interact with the surface of
the floor.
Other properties of our focus are material.
The physical material describes the friction and bouncing us, and we'll talk about this in depth later.
The drag value is the tendency for an object to slow down.
You can think of a high linear drag as being something that's difficult to drag across a floor or move
across the floor.
You can think of high angular drag as something that's difficult to spin or rotate.
The mass of an object is incredibly important.
The higher the mass, the more difficult it is to move it.
In our world, you can think of a bowling ball as having a high mass because on earth with Earth's gravity,
it would be difficult to pick up and also difficult to roll.
Compared to a beach ball, which is very low mass, you can make a small movement touching the side
of a beach ball and expect it to move much further than a bowling ball.
Let's take a look at a demo of two D mass.
We'll play the scene, inspect the mass values, and we'll create a new massive weight and interact
with it, see how it behaves differently.
Let's open up the two RD mask project.
We're going to create a new.
Very massive weight.
We'll add to it a rigid body to D.
In a collider two rd.
And we're going to add 100 for the mass value, which is a lot higher than the others.
We can see when we run the scene here, they'll all fall with the same gravity.
However, the very massive weight will squeeze the other objects out of the way.
It's so massive it really wants to return to the ground surface more than the others.
And that's it.
In the next video, we'll take a look at the two D collider component.